hello and welcome to another red gaming
tech a gaming news video myself a martyr
today is a fourth of april and i
actually have a little bit of sad news
as disney how shut down LucasArts oh of
course is a publishing arm responsible
for many classics over the years and
also of course a few duds he looks up
representative confirmed the news in a
recent statement to gaming former saying
after evaluating our position in the
game of markets we've decided to shift
LucasArts from an internal development
to a licensing model minimizing the
company's risk while achieving a broader
portfolio of quality Star Wars games as
a result of this change we've had
layoffs across the organization we are
credibly appreciatively proud of the
talented teams have been developing our
new titles and saying about the people
who have actually been let go from the
arm and about 150 people have apparently
been laid off according to the website
kotaku and they also claim according to
a source that both of the studio's
products have apparently been canceled
out right which of course our Star Wars
1313 and Star Wars first assault however
a Lucasfilm rep has said that the
project may be rescued a licensing deal
with an external developer and they said
it's worth noting that we are looking
for proven external partners who can
help to provide video games to our fans
they still believe in the video game
industry will still provide Star Wars
games we're just looking at different
models rather than internal production
they're evaluating everything there's
always a possibility that Star Wars 1313
can still come out via licensing so the
future of Star Wars 1313 remains very
unclear at this point and doesn't seem
to be looking very bright and sunny by
any stretch of the imagination as unless
some external developer decides to take
it under their wing and finish the
development we probably won't be seeing
that game at all or any time soon at
lisa lee someone picked it up as that
game did look promising and it like it
might actually be a return to form for
Lucas art and the Star Wars games
as there have been a few dead ones
released over the last couple of years
but it looks like that might probably
most likely won't happen and it's not
exactly a surprise that this has
happened while it is very very sad
especially for the people who have
worked there for so long and for us
gamers as well because while lucasarts
have had a troubled last few years they
did bring us lots of classics that we
enjoyed as we were growing up or perhaps
as adults and looking back and playing
those classics again for the first time
you know they have given us a lot of
quality games and it's a real shame that
this has had to happen but I don't think
anyone is really surprised by this given
the run of bad luck that they've had
lately star wars force unleashed while
it had success star wars force unleashed
2 is regarded to be terrible by a lot of
people and that series seems to died on
the vine and of course battlefront
series has pretty much had the same fate
and of course there was star wars the
old republic which was reviewed well but
obviously didn't actually do that well
in terms of the subscriber rate and of
course was eventually forced to go into
a free-to-play business model and
obviously Star Wars games overall just
haven't really made much of an impact of
a recent years and neither has their
other big franchise the Indiana Jones
games with the exception of their lego
indiana jones series which was i had not
actually developed by lucasarts but the
interesting thing is that games that
were obviously based off or it is
inspired by the Indiana Jones films such
as tomb raider and uncharted have both
done really really well especially the
recent tomb raider reboot which
obviously many people regard to be a
very good game indeed as well as all
that all of this the head of the company
the management it isn't to be going on a
revolving door with one person leaving
and then the another person would come
stay for a couple of years and then they
would leave and one person in particular
left before even finishing the game that
he had been working on and that was
Clint Hocking who actually led the file
corian Splinter Cell franchises at
Ubisoft so you know they've not had a
very good time of it of
it and that's real shame that this is
how it happens as i said earlier but not
exactly surprising because to be honest
as much as lucasarts have given as
classics over the years both developed
in-house and just published by them they
have pretty much become the star wars
guys that's pretty much all they seem to
be doing is milking the name of star
wars and basically putting out games to
further rinse a pretty well rinsed
series by this point i always agreed
with the artsy when he said beating the
giblets that were once a dead horse when
it comes to the games and star wars
franchise and develop that seems pretty
apt although of course he wasn't saying
that with a straight face but still it
is a fair point Star Wars has been
pretty beaten down in terms of the
amount of games and so on release for it
and that might be one of the reasons
that lucasarts have kind of met this
fate because the Star Wars games were
kind of their biggest games and recently
they haven't been in that big especially
with the colossal failure that was at
the Old Republic so this is a real shame
to have happened but hopefully the
people that had been that go from the
company can find themselves a job in a
better company a company with a brighter
future and the Star Wars 1313 can still
don't see the light of day even if it
has to be developed by an external
developer I'm sure most of us would
prefer that to the game and never being
released at all anyway as always I do
want to hear your thoughts and feelings
on this do you think this is a bad thing
I mean obviously think it's a bad thing
but what I mean is do you think that
anything could have been done to prevent
it did you see this coming I surprised
you know what your feelings on this I
want to hear from you guys as I always
do anyway my thoughts go out to anyone
who's lost their job because of this
that i know that feeling i'm sure most
of us know that feeling and it's not
very pleasant one especially when you're
going to be so personally connected to
the products are working on as you would
be with the game's development company
so my thoughts do it go out to them and
hopefully they can find themselves
something better with a brighter future
anyway that's me done for this video
thank you very much for watching and
I'll see you next time bye for now
you